# RouteWars

For future reference, this file will detail how I went about the project.

## Hardware:
I used a stock Raspberry Pi 5 with the default OS generated by the [Raspberry Pi Imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/)

Here's the precise specs:
- **Hardware:** Raspberry Pi 5 Model B Rev 1.0
- **OS:** Debian Bookworm 12 (stable)

# Setting up remote development environment
Let's set up a way of working on our Raspberry Pi 

## Set up VPS with Oracle and Cloudflare
I'm paying £1.60 a month for an Oracle Cloud instance which I can SSH into it through its public iPv4.
If you have a domain name you can use Cloudflare to SSH through there:
1. Add a DNS record for your domain whose content is the iPv4 of the VPS.
2. Make sure the proxy status is unticked— "DNS Only".

## Port forward
I'm going to make it so port 2222 on the VPS forwards to port 22 on the Pi. Follow these steps on each machine:
### On the VPS:
3. Edit /etc/ssh/sshd_config
4. Uncomment `# GatewayPorts no` and change it to `GatewayPorts yes`
5. Open port in the firewall
```sh
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-port=2222/tcp
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
```
### On the Pi:
6. Make sure VPS authorises the Pi's ssh key, e.g. `ssh-copy-id user@mydomain.com`
7. Install autossh
```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install autossh -y
```
8. Create file `/etc/systemd/system/reverse-ssh.service`:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=Reverse SSH Tunnel
After=network.target

[Service]
User=piuser
ExecStart=/usr/bin/autossh -M 0 -o "ServerAliveInterval 30" -o "ServerAliveCountMax 3" -o "ExitOnForwardFailure=yes" -N -R 2222:localhost:22 vpsuser@mydomain.com
Restart=always
RestartSec=10
KillMode=process

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```
- Breakdown of the autossh command:
	- `-M 0` disables autossh's monitoring ports (optional but prevents unnecessary ports from being used).
	- `-o "ServerAliveInterval 30"`: Sends a keep-alive packet every **30 seconds**.
	- `-o "ServerAliveCountMax 3`: If **3 consecutive keep-alive packets** fail, the connection is terminated. This ensures the tunnel reconnects if there's a temporary network issue.
	- `-o "ExitOnForwardFailure=yes"`: Ensures `autossh` exits if the port forwarding fails, allowing the service to restart and retry.
	- `-f` runs it in the background.
	- `-N` prevents command execution (just forwarding).
	- `-R 2222:localhost:22` sets up the reverse tunnel.
9. Enable and start service:
```sh
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable reverse-ssh
sudo systemctl start reverse-ssh
```
### On your machine:
On the machine you want to access the Pi from (e.g. laptop), add this to your ~/.ssh/config:
```
Host mypi
    HostName mydomain.com
    Port 2222
    User piuser
```


# Part 1: The control router

The "control experiment". Let's implement router functionality using just the `iptables` and `nnmcli` packages. The whole router process will thus happen in the kernel space (I THINK?).

### 1. Check that the Wi-Fi interfaces aren't disabled
```
nmcli radio wifi
```
If it returns something like:
```
wifi: disabled
```
You can enable Wi-Fi by running:
```
nmcli radio wifi on
```

### 1. Enable hotspot on Pi
Use the built-in WiFi module to broadcast a hotspot network on `wlan0`. Replace `<hotspot-name>` and `<hotspot-password>` accordingly:
```bash
sudo nmcli device wifi hotspot ssid <hotspot-name> password <hotspot-password> ifname wlan0
```

Then, to enable packet forwarding, edit `/etc/sysctl.conf` and uncomment this line:
```
net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
```

Apply the changes with:
```bash
sudo sysctl -p
```

You can see the connection with `sudo nmcli connection show`, activate it with  `sudo nmcli connection up`, and deactivate it with `sudo nmcli connection down`.

### 2. Forward traffic from Pi to Internet

Forward traffic from the `wlan0` interface to the `eth0` interface:
```bash
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -i wlan0 -o eth0 -j ACCEPT
```

Forward traffic from the `eth0` interface to the `wlan0` interface **for already established or related connections** 
```bash
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -o wlan0 -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
```

Set up network address translation (NAT) so that traffic leaving the `eth0` interface will always appear to come from the IP address of the `eth0` interface:
```bash
sudo iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
```

You can verify the rules with:
```sh
sudo iptables -L FORWARD -v -n
sudo iptables -t nat -L -v -n
```

### 3. Save iptables rules

Install `iptables-persistent` package:
```sh
sudo apt install iptables-persistent
```
During installation, it will prompt you to save the current rules. You can choose yes, but we will change these rules part 2.
# Part 2: Intercepting packets in the user-space

I'm not trying to rewrite the Linux network stack here, so we'll allow the kernel's netfilter framework to handle the initial packet processing.
However, we can intercept packets being processed using the [libnetfilter_queue](https://netfilter.org/projects/libnetfilter_queue/doxygen/html/) library and handle them with our custom logic in the user-space.

### 1. Install libnetfilter-queue

```sh
sudo apt install libnetfilter-queue-dev
```

### 2. Direct packets to NFQUEUE

Let's first remove the forwarding rules we set up in part 1:
```sh
sudo iptables -D FORWARD -i wlan0 -o eth0 -j ACCEPT
sudo iptables -D FORWARD -i eth0 -o wlan0 -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j ACCEPT
```

We can keep the MASQUERADE rule for now, though we can manually implement that logic later.

Let's set up another forwarding rule from `wlan0` to `eth0` but this time we're directing packets to the NFQUEUE target for processing.
```sh
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -i wlan0 -o eth0 -j NFQUEUE --queue-num 0
sudo iptables -A FORWARD -i eth0 -o wlan0 -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j NFQUEUE --queue-num 0
```

and of course save whenever you want the changes to be persistent:
```sh
sudo iptables-save | sudo tee /etc/iptables/rules.v4
```

### 3. Intercept packets in python

Now the packets are in NFQUEUE. As a proof-of-concept, we can write a python script to handle them.

I've prepared a [`router_monitor.py`](router_monitor.py) program in this repo to do this. To run it, go the the RouteWars directory and:

Install pip:
```
sudo apt install python3-pip
```

Create virtual environment:
```
python3 -m venv env
```

Activate env and install dependent libraries:
```
source env/bin/activate
pip3 install scapy netfilterqueue
```

Deactivate env and run code with sudo privileges:
```
deactivate
sudo router_monitor.py
```

# Part 3: Attack of the Zoomer Languages

### Zig:
[`zig/zig.md`](zig/zig.md)

### Rust:
N/A

### Go:
N/A

### Gleam:
N/A

# Part 4: Load-Testing the Router

### 1. Create Network Namespaces
Two outside of the router, one for the router
```sh
sudo ip netns add ns1
sudo ip netns add ns2
sudo ip netns add router
```
### 2. Create virtual ethernet (veth) pairs

A veth pair is like a virtual network cable connecting two interfaces. We need to make a pair for each interface we want to simulate, i.e. one to represent `wlan0` and one to represent `eth0`.
```sh
sudo ip link add veth0 type veth peer name veth0-rtr
sudo ip link add veth1 type veth peer name veth1-rtr
```

### 3. Assign the veths to namespaces
Make two namespaces
```sh
sudo ip link set veth0 netns ns1
sudo ip link set veth1 netns ns2

sudo ip link set veth0-rtr netns router
sudo ip link set veth1-rtr netns router
```
### 4. Assign IPs and bring up interfaces
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip addr add 192.168.1.1/24 dev veth0
sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip addr add 192.168.2.1/24 dev veth1
sudo ip netns exec router ip addr add 192.168.1.100/24 dev veth0-rtr
sudo ip netns exec router ip addr add 192.168.2.100/24 dev veth1-rtr

sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip link set veth0 up
sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip link set veth1 up
sudo ip netns exec router ip link set veth0-rtr up
sudo ip netns exec router ip link set veth1-rtr up
```

Also, enable the loopback interface inside each namespace:
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip link set lo up
sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip link set lo up
```

### 5. Update default routes in namespaces
Ensure that the default routes in `ns1` and `ns2` point to the `router` namespace:
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns1 ip route add default via 192.168.1.100 dev veth0
sudo ip netns exec ns2 ip route add default via 192.168.2.100 dev veth1
```

### 6. Set up forwarding rules
```sh
sudo ip netns exec router iptables -A FORWARD -i veth0-rtr -o veth1-rtr -j NFQUEUE --queue-num 0
sudo ip netns exec router iptables -A FORWARD -i veth1-rtr -o veth0-rtr -m state --state ESTABLISHED,RELATED -j NFQUEUE --queue-num 0
```

### 7. Run the routing software inside router namespace
```sh
sudo ip netns exec router ./zig/nfqueue_test2
```

### 8. Test connectivity
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns1 ping -c 3 192.168.2.1
```

### 9. Use `iperf3` for throughput test
```sh
sudo apt install iperf3
```

Then, set up server inside `ns2` and run a client from `ns1`. These commands will run in the foreground so I personally run each one inside different `tmux` windows, but you could also run them in the background or in separate terminals in you'd prefer.

Set up server inside `ns2`:
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns2 iperf3 -s
```

Run a client from `ns1`:
```sh
sudo ip netns exec ns1 iperf3 -c 192.168.2.1
```